README.md, before:

# idslabel

Note: This is nowhere near ready yet.


## requirements

This application depends on FFmpeg, PortAudio and PyAudio.

#### ffmpeg
To install the ffmpeg binary, download from [here](https://www.ffmpeg.org/download.html). OS specific binaries are under the "Get the packages" section. The binary should be put somewhere on your $PATH, like /usr/local/bin (on Linux/OS X).

#### portaudio
To install PortAudio, the easiest way is to use your operating system's package manager.

For OS X, you can use [homebrew](http://brew.sh/):
```bash
$: brew install portaudio
```

For Debian/Ubuntu Linux:
```bash
$: sudo apt-get install portaudio
```

#### pyaudio

The easiest way to install is with pip:
```bash
$: sudo pip install pyaudio
```

## usage

You need to "Load Audio" before "Load Clan". Then, "Load Block", click on the clips in the box, and "Play Clip". After selecting one of the classification buttons, "Submit Classification".  




## status

### implemented

- parsing cha file and extracting Conversation blocks
- chopping up associated audio file
 - each conversation block is chopped as a unit (upon loading)
 - each tier (except comments and *SIL) within a block is chopped into a new audio clip given its timestamp in the cha file
- randomize the blocks and allow the user to load a random one for classification
- list the clips within the currently loaded block, and allow the user to play the audio for a given clip.
- allow the user to select a classification for the currently playing clip
 - ids
 - ads
 - neither
 - junk
- export classifications to csv (mostly implemented)

### not implemented yet

- connect to server and checkout cha/audio file for labeling
- turn app into standalone executable with py2app and py2exe
- lots of UI things (make it more convenient)

Commit message:

Add shortcuts, classification output, and tiers

README.md, after:

# idslabel

Note: This is nowhere near ready yet.


## requirements

This application depends on FFmpeg, PortAudio and PyAudio.

#### ffmpeg
To install the ffmpeg binary, download from [here](https://www.ffmpeg.org/download.html). OS specific binaries are under the "Get the packages" section. The binary should be put somewhere on your $PATH, like /usr/local/bin (on Linux/OS X).

#### portaudio
To install PortAudio, the easiest way is to use your operating system's package manager.

For OS X, you can use [homebrew](http://brew.sh/):
```bash
$: brew install portaudio
```

For Debian/Ubuntu Linux:
```bash
$: sudo apt-get install portaudio
```

#### pyaudio

The easiest way to install is with pip:
```bash
$: sudo pip install pyaudio
```

## usage

You need to "Load Audio" before "Load Clan". Then, "Load Block", click on the clips in the box, and "Play Clip". After selecting one of the classification buttons, "Submit Classification".  


There are keyboard shortcuts for selecting the classification and cycling through the clips:

- Classification Keys
 - i : IDS
 - a : ADS
 - n : Neither
 - j : Junk


- Clip Keys
 - left          : previous clip
 - right         : next clip
 - space         : play clip
 - shift + space : play block


## status

### implemented

- parsing cha file and extracting Conversation blocks
- chopping up associated audio file
 - each conversation block is chopped as a unit (upon loading)
 - each tier (except comments and *SIL) within a block is chopped into a new audio clip given its timestamp in the cha file
- randomize the blocks and allow the user to load a random one for classification
- list the clips within the currently loaded block, and allow the user to play the audio for a given clip.
- allow the user to select a classification for the currently playing clip
 - ids
 - ads
 - neither
 - junk
- export classifications to csv (mostly implemented)

### not implemented yet

- connect to server and checkout cha/audio file for labeling
- turn app into standalone executable with py2app and py2exe
- lots of UI things (make it more convenient)
